Python tutorial revamp (#6964)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/tutorials/build-a-python-app-with-pyinstaller.adoc

The simple Python application (which you'll obtain from a sample repository on
GitHub) is a command line tool "add2vals" that outputs the addition of two
values.

> If at least one of the values is a string, "add2vals" treats both values
> as a string and instead concatenates the values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If at least one of the values is a string, "add2vals" instead treats both values
as a string and concatenates the values.
```
Suggestion to move "instead" so that it makes more grammatical sense

repository of the application's source code into your own GitHub account and
then cloning this fork locally.

. Ensure you are signed in to your GitHub account.

> If you don't yet have a GitHub account, sign up for a free one on the https://github.com/[GitHub website].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't yet have a GitHub account, sign up for a free one on the link:https://github.com/[GitHub website].
```
Adding link macro

. Fork the

>   https://github.com/jenkins-docs/simple-python-pyinstaller-app[`simple-python-pyinstaller-app`] on GitHub into your local GitHub account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:https://github.com/jenkins-docs/simple-python-pyinstaller-app[`simple-python-pyinstaller-app`] on GitHub into your local GitHub account.
```
remove white space & add link macro

> If you need help with this process, refer to the https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/[Fork A Repo] documentation on the GitHub website for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need help with this process, refer to the link:https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/[Fork A Repo] documentation on the GitHub website for more information.
```
Adding link macro

. Clone your forked `simple-python-pyinstaller-app` repository (on GitHub)locally to your machine.
To begin this process, do either of the following (where `<your-username>` is the name of your user account on your operating system):
** If you have the GitHub Desktop app installed on your machine:

> .. In GitHub, click the green *Clone or download* button on your forked repository, then *Open in Desktop*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. In GitHub, click the green *Code* button on your forked repository, then *Open in Desktop*.
```
Updating text to match current GitHub UI

Author: Really? I may have a Chrome plugin or something, because on my browser, "Code" is displayed.
Oooops.

** Otherwise:
.. Open up a terminal/command line prompt and `cd` to the appropriate directory on:
*** macOS - `/Users/<your-username>/Documents/GitHub/`
*** Linux - `/home/<your-username>/GitHub/`
*** Windows - `C:\Users\<your-username>\Documents\GitHub\` (although use a Git bash command line window as opposed to the usual Microsoft command prompt)
.. Run the following command to continue/complete cloning your forked repo: +
   `git clone \https://github.com/YOUR-GITHUB-ACCOUNT-NAME/simple-python-pyinstaller-app` +
   where `YOUR-GITHUB-ACCOUNT-NAME` is the name of your GitHub account.

=== Start your Jenkins instance

1. Obtain the latest Jenkins LTS instance, customized for this tutorial, by cloning the link:https://github.com/jenkins-docs/quickstart-tutorials.git[quickstart-tutorials repository].
2. After cloning, navigate to the `quickstart-tutorials` directory, and execute the command `docker compose up -d python` to run the example.
3. Once the containers (one for the controller, one for the agent) are running successfully (you can verify this with `docker compose ps`), the controller can be accessed at http://localhost:8080.

> If you are unable to install `docker compose` on your machine for any reason, you can still run the example in the cloud for free thanks to link:https://www.gitpod.io/[GitPod]. GitPod link:https://www.gitpod.io/pricing[is free] for 50 hours per month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unable to install `docker compose` on your machine for any reason, you can still run the example in the cloud for free thanks to link:https://www.gitpod.io/[GitPod].
GitPod link:https://www.gitpod.io/pricing[is free] for 50 hours per month.
```
Separating full sentences

You need to link it to your GitHub account so you can run the example in the cloud.
Click on link:https://gitpod.io/?autostart=true#https://github.com/jenkins-docs/quickstart-tutorials[that link] to open a new browser tab with a GitPod workspace where you'll be able to start the Jenkins instance, and run the rest of the tutorial.

Now, log in using the `admin` username and `admin` password.

=== Create your Pipeline project in Jenkins

. In Jenkins, select *New Item* under *Dashboard >* at the top left.
. Enter your new Pipeline project name in *Enter an item name* (e.g. `simple-python-pyinstaller-app`).
. Scroll down if necessary and select *Pipeline*, then click *OK* at the end of the page.
. (Optional) Enter a Pipeline *Description*.
. Select *Pipeline* on the left pane.
. Select *Definition*, and then choose the *Pipeline script from SCM* option.
This option instructs Jenkins to obtain your Pipeline from the source control management (SCM), which is your forked Git repository.
. Choose *Git* from the options in *SCM*.

> . Enter the URL of your repository in *Repositories/Repository URL*. This URL can be found when clicking on the green button *Code* in the main page of your GitHub repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enter the URL of your repository in *Repositories/Repository URL*.
This URL can be found when clicking on the green button *Code* in the main page of your GitHub repo.
```
Separating full sentences

. Hit the *Save* button at the end of the page.
You're now ready to create a `Jenkinsfile` to check into your locally cloned Git repository.

=== Create your initial Pipeline as a Jenkinsfile

You're now ready to create your Pipeline that will automate building your Python application with PyInstaller in Jenkins.
Your Pipeline will be created as a `Jenkinsfile`, which will be committed to your locally cloned Git repository (`simple-python-pyinstaller-app`), and then pushed to GitHub, where Jenkins will be able to find it.

> This is the foundation of "Pipeline-as-Code", which treats the continuous delivery pipeline a part of the application to be versioned and reviewed like any other code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the foundation of "Pipeline-as-Code", which treats the continuous delivery pipeline as part of the application to be versioned and reviewed like any other code.
```
Updating "a" to "as" so that it makes sense in context

Read more about Pipeline and what a Jenkinsfile is in the link:/doc/book/pipeline[Pipeline] and link:/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile[Using a Jenkinsfile] sections of the User Handbook.

First, create an initial Pipeline with a "Build" stage that executes the first part of the entire production process for your application.
This "Build" stage compiles your simple Python application into byte code.

> . Using your favorite text editor or IDE, create and save new text file with the name `Jenkinsfile` at the root of your local `simple-python-pyinstaller-app` Git repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Using your favorite text editor or IDE, create and save a new text file with the name `Jenkinsfile` at the root of your local `simple-python-pyinstaller-app` Git repository.
```
Suggestion to add "a" so that the grammar makes sense

  `simple-python-pyinstaller-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add initial Jenkinsfile"` +
and in the end +
  `git push`

. In Jenkins, select *Build Now* on the left pane.
. After making a clone of your local `simple-python-pyinstaller-app` Git repository itself, Jenkins:
.. Initially queues the project to be run on the agent.
.. Runs the `Build` stage defined in the `Jenkinsfile` on the agent.
. You should now see on the left a green check mark and #1, indicating that your first Pipeline has run successfully.
. You should also see in the main part of the page a *Stage View* of your Pipeline, which shows the `Build` stage run, indicating that your first Pipeline has run successfully.
+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/python/first-job-success.png[alt="first maven job success",width=100%]

+
You can now click on *#1* to see the details of the build.

> You will then see how much time the build took waiting in the queue, and how much time it took to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will then see how much time the build took waiting in the queue and how much time it took to run.
```
Suggestion to remove unnecessary ","

The:
* `--junit-xml test-reports/results.xml` option makes `py.test` generate a JUnit
  XML report, which is saved to `test-reports/results.xml` (within the
  `/var/jenkins_home/workspace/simple-python-pyinstaller-app` directory in Jenkins).
<3> This
link:/doc/pipeline/steps/junit/#junit-archive-junit-formatted-test-results[`junit`]
step (provided by the link:/doc/pipeline/steps/junit[JUnit Plugin]) archives the
JUnit XML report (generated by the `py.test` command above) and exposes the
results through the Jenkins interface. The
link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#post[`post`] section's `always` condition that
contains this `junit` step ensures that the step is _always_ executed _at the
completion_ of the `Test` stage, regardless of the stage's outcome.
. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local
  `simple-python-pyinstaller-app` Git repository. E.g. Within the
  `simple-python-pyinstaller-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add 'Test' stage"`
and in the end +
`git push`

> . In Jenkins, go back to *Dashboard* if necessary, then *simple-python-pyinstaller-app* and launch another build thanks to *Build Now*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In Jenkins, navigate back to the *Dashboard* if necessary, then *simple-python-pyinstaller-app* and launch another build thanks to *Build Now*.
```
Suggestion to update "go back" to "navigate back" and adding "the".

> . You should see after a while a new column *Test* appear in the *Stage View*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. After a while, you should see a new column labeled *Test* appear in the *Stage View*.
```
Suggestion to rearrange content and add "labeled" for the Test column.

[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/python/test-stage-added.png[alt="Test stage runs successfully",width=100%]

. You can click on *#2* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*. You will then see the details of the build.
+

> You can now click on *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now select *Pipeline Overview* to see the stages of the Pipeline.
```
Suggestion to use "select" instead of "click on"

This ultimately makes maintaining your Pipeline code easier, especially if your Pipeline gains more complexity.
<3> This link:/doc/pipeline/steps/core/#archiveArtifacts-archive-the-artifacts[`archiveArtifacts`] step (provided as part of Jenkins core) archives the standalone executable file (generated by the `pyinstaller` command above at `dist/add2vals` within the Jenkins home's workspace directory) and exposes this file through the Jenkins interface.
The link:/doc/book/pipeline/syntax/#post[`post`] section's `success` condition that contains this `archiveArtifacts` step ensures that the step is executed _at the completion_ of the `Deliver` stage _only if_ this stage completed successfully.
. Save your edited `Jenkinsfile` and commit it to your local
  `simple-python-pyinstaller-app` Git repository. E.g. Within the
  `simple-python-pyinstaller-app` directory, run the commands: +
  `git add .` +
  then +
  `git commit -m "Add 'Deliver' stage"` +
and in the end +
`git push`

. In Jenkins, sign in if necessary, and go back to the *Dashboard* and then *simple-python-pyinstaller-app* or go directly to *simple-python-pyinstaller-app* depending on where you're starting from.

> . Select *Build Now* on the left. You should see after a while a new column *Deliver* appear in the *Stage View*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Build Now* on the left. 
After a while, you should see a new column labeled *Deliver* appear in the *Stage View*.
```
Same as above, adjusting lines & syntax so that this makes a bit more sense grammatically.

+
[.boxshadow]
image:tutorials/python/deliver-stage-added.png[alt="Deliver stage runs successfully",width=100%]

> . You can click on *#3* or on the number representing your last build on the left, under *Build History*. You will then see the details of the build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You can click on *#3* or on the number representing your last build, in the left pane under *Build History* to see the details of the build.
```
Suggestion to adjust wording so that it is one sentence and describe the location clearly.
